# Projects
Project name | Description | Libraries used
------ | -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------
Forecasting the Bank's customer churn http://surl.li/dlkss |Clients started leaving the bank every month. A little, but noticeable. Banking marketers figured it was cheaper to keep current customers than to attract new ones. It is necessary to predict whether the client will leave the bank in the near future or not provided historical data on customer behavior and termination of agreements with the bank.                                                    | Scikit-learn Pandas Matplotlib
Forecasting the cost of housing in a residential area. http://surl.li/dlksv |The service for the sale of apartments ordered the development of a model for predicting the cost of an apartment | Spark Pandas Python
Hotel Sales Forecasting System http://surl.li/dlksd |A model for predicting the cancellation of a client's reservation is built. As a metric, it is proposed to use the amount of revenue that will be obtained after the implementation of the machine learning model.                    | Python Scikit-learn Pandas Matplotlib Numpy Exploratory data analysis
A study of data from the Yandex. Music service - a comparison of users of two cities. http://surl.li/dlklt | Comparison of Moscow and St. Petersburg is surrounded by myths. Moscow is a metropolis subject to the rigid rhythm of the working week. Petersburg is a city of unique culture, unlike Moscow. Some myths reflect reality. Others are empty stereotypes. Business must distinguish the former from the latter in order to make rational decisions. Using real Yandex.Music data, you will check the data and compare the behavior of users in the two capitals.                                                | Python Pandas
Determination of a favorable tariff for a telecom company. http://surl.li/dlkpw | A preliminary analysis of the use of tariffs on a sample of customers was carried out, analyzed the behavior of customers when using the services of the operator and recommended optimal sets of services for users. Pre-processing done data, their analysis. The hypotheses about the difference in the revenue of subscribers of different tariffs and difference in revenue of subscribers from Moscow and other regions.                         | Data processing Histogram Boxplot Statistical test Student's criterion
Sale of apartments in St. Petersburg - analysis of the real estate market. http://surl.li/dlkuj | Based on the Yandex.Realty service data, the market value of various types of real estate objects, typical parameters of apartments, depending on the distance from the center, were determined. Data preprocessing has been carried out. Added new data. Histograms, boxplots, scatterplots are constructed.                                         | Data processing Histogram Boxplot Scatter matrix Categorization Scatter plot Fraud monitoring
Development of an accident prevention system for carsharing http://surl.li/dlksp | Based on historical data from the database, identify the causes of accidents and create a safe driving alert.                                                                                      | Databases Feature synthesis
Determination of the most profitable oil production region http://surl.li/dlksj | Oil samples were provided in three regions. The characteristics for each well in the region are already known. It is necessary to build a model to determine the region where mining will bring the greatest profit. | Regression Business model development Bootstrap
Forecasting the number of taxi orders for the next hour http://surl.li/dlksz | The taxi company has collected historical data on taxi bookings at airports. To attract more drivers during the peak period, you need to predict the number of taxi orders for the next hour. A model is built for such a prediction. | Time series Regression Predictions
Development of a system for recommending the cost of a car based on its description. http://surl.li/dlktd | A used car service is developing an app to attract new customers. In it, you can quickly find out the market value of your car. Based on historical data, it is necessary to build a model to determine the cost of the car. | Gradient boosting Regression
SQL practice http://surl.li/dnooa | This project consists of 10 SQL queries on a Jupyter Notebook. The main goal of the project is to show practical knowledge of SQL. | PostgreSQL SQLAlchemy Python 
Protection of client's personal data http://surl.li/dnonl | It is necessary to protect the data of the clients of the insurance company "X". Develop a data transformation method that makes it difficult to recover personal information from it. Justify the correctness of his work. It needs to protect the data so that the quality of the machine learning models does not deteriorate during the transformation. | Linear algebra Regression Scikit-learn Python Numpy
Optimization of electricity consumption at a metallurgical plant http://surl.li/dyjhu | In order to optimize production costs, the metallurgical plant LLC "Steel Bird" decided to reduce electricity consumption at the stage of steel processing. We need to build a model that will predict the temperature of the steel. | Pandas Scikit-learn Pandas Matplotlib Numpy PyTorch Skorch Phik Seaborn